.\" Manpage for OpenNetCam VCHANNEL.
.TH man 1 "1 Mar 2015" "1.0" "vchannel man page"
.SH NAME
VCHANNEL \- OpenNetCam video channel application
.SH SYNOPSIS
vchannel provides streaming from a network IP camera.  
.SH DESCRIPTION
vchannel provides streaming using rtsp/rtp.  

It will;
    stream from MJPEG and H264 sources
    display video in a window on screen, 
    record to disk in AVI (MJPEG) or MP4 (H264) formats,
    detect motion,
    notify a supervisor application of events 

vchannel uses the Qt4 (ver 4.8) framework.
 
.SH CONFIG

vchannel will save its configuration to:
<home>/.config/opennetcam/vchannel_<name>.conf

where <name> is a unique name passed on the command line

.SH OPTIONS

syntax: vchannel <options>
        --noborder,-b         : omit window border, fix window position and size
        --position,-p <x>-<y>-<w>-<h>         : window position
        --device,-d   <num>                   : unique number of this device (reqd.)
        --name,-n     <name>                  : unique camera name (reqd.)
        --cname,-c    <name>                  : common name
        --url,-u      <url>                   : url to stream using rtsp & rtp/udp (default)
        --tcp,-t      <url>                   : url to stream using rtsp & rtp/tcp
        --audio,-a    <mode>                  : audio mode (MJPEG only)
        --output,-o   <dir>                   : output directory
        --hardware,-w <hw>                    : hardware designation
        --record,-r   <i>-<m>-<d>-<h:m>-<h:m> : record schedule
        --events,-e   <ipaddr>                : send event messages to server
        --motion,-m   <s>-<t>-<x>-<y>-<w>-<h> : motion detection/window settings
        --basic,-s    <auth>                  : basic security authorization
        --version,-v                          : version display
        --help,-h                             : this summary

omit window border

    Do not decorate the window with a border and
    do not allow the window to be moved or resized

window position
    fields delimitered by '-'
    <x>-<y>-<w>-<h>
    <x>    window left   - 0 ==> previously saved position or default
    <y>    window top    - 0 ==> previously saved position or default
    <w>    window width  - 0 ==> previously saved position or default
    <w>    window height - 0 ==> previously saved position or default
    
    e.g.
    0-0-640-400

common name

    User-friendly display name of the channel

camera name

    Unique identifier of the channel, such as a UUID

url to stream using rtsp & rtp/udp (default)

    Path URL to the streaming data.
    This will vary from camera type to camera type.  Consult the camera
    documentation for details.
    Use the camera's web interface to set up the streaming profiles.  
    
    For example:
    Acti: (stream1 ==> profile 1)
        rtsp://192.168.1.128:7070/stream1
        
    Amegia: (v05 ==> profile 5)
        rtsp://192.168.1.201/v05 
        
    Vivotek: (live.sdp ==> profile 2)
        rtsp://192.168.1.23/live2.sdp 


url to stream using rtsp & rtp/tcp

    Same as above, except that TCP protocol will be used.
    This may be needed in some networks where UDP fails.
    Note that not all cameras support TCP.

audio mode
    
    Record audio as well as video (MJPEG only)
    0 : no audio 
    1 : record audio 
    
    Note: audio will not play live, but will be recorded

output directory

    Base directory for storing recorded video files
    By default this is '/tmp'
    Files are stored as:
    <dir>/<date>/AV.<name>.<timestamp>.<secs>.<evt>.avi (MJPEG)
    or 
    <dir>/<date>/AV.<name>.<timestamp>.<secs>.<evt>.mp4 (H264)

    where:
        <dir> is the base directory
        <date> is the current date in yyyy-mm-dd format
        <name> is the unique camera name
        <timestamp> is the UTC time_t value in seconds
        <secs> is the length of the video clip in seconds
        <evt> is the event indicator; N=none, M=motion
        
unique number of this device

    Each instance of vchannel must be set with a unique integer, as this 
    determines the TCP/IP port number to use when accessing the device.
    device 1 gets port 5556, device 2 gets 5557 and so on

hardware designation

    Hardware descriptor type (ASCII) or 
    alternatively the MAC address

record schedule

    fields delimitered by '-'
    <id>-<mode>-<days of week>-<start time>-<end time>
    <id>   : integer identifier of this schedule
    <mode> : integer -  OFF=0, 
                        CONTINUOUS=1, 
                        SCHEDULE=2, 
                        MOTION=3, 
                        SCHEDULE & MOTION=4
    <start time> : HH:MM using 24 hour clock
    <end time>   : HH:MM using 24 hour clock
    e.g. 
    0-3-127-00:00-23:59

send event messages

    IP address of server to which event messages are sent.  If this 
    option is absent, no event messages will be sent.
    
    Also, vchannel will accept commands from this IP address as well as
    the localhost (127.0.0.1).  If this option is absent, only commands 
    from localhost will be accepted. 

basic security authorization

    Basic Authorization string for RTSP protocol. This must contain the 
    username and password, base64 encoded.
    Some cameras may require at least Basic authorization.

motion detection window

    If this field is set, vchannel will do motion detection.  Note that you can 
    set the camera to do motion detection too, but you probably do not need both.
    
    fields delimitered by '-'
    <sensitivity>-<threshold>-<x0>-<y0>-<x1>-<x2>
    <sensitivity> brightness difference needed to trigger an event 
                  (100 is most sensitive, 0 least) 
    <threshold>   % of pixels in event window needed to trigger an event 
                  (0 is smallest (most easily triggered), 100 is full window) 
    <x0>    event window left in % of image width
    <y0>    event window top in % of image height
    <x1>    event window right in % of image width
    <y1>    event window bottom in % of image height
    
    e.g.
    50-50-0-0-100-100
    

.SH SEE ALSO

.SH BUGS
No reported bugs.

.SH COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2015 Mydatappliance Technologies  
       Licensed under GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
       This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

.SH AUTHOR
S Meyer (support (at) mydatappliance (dot) com)
    
